BioJava Toolkit Progress
Matthew Pocock

BioJava is an open-source software project that aims to provide an
industry-quality Java library for common bioinformatics tasks. BioJava
is part of the open-bio foundation. BioJava was started in the autumn of
1998, and now has over 25 developers. In the past two years, the core
development team has expanded from the original team of two to five.
This has brought with it a greater range of views and expertise, as well
as a greater stability. In parallel with this, we are in the process of
integrating unit testing to maintain the quality of the >130,000 lines
of code and documentation in the core library.

BioJava has taken an active role in participating in the open-bio
hackathons. Representatives have attended both legs of the hackathon
(Tuscon, AZ, USA and Cape Town, SA). During this time, several important
interoperabe technologies were designed and implemented. These include a
registry file format for biological entities, an SQL schema for storage
of sequences and their annotations, BioCorba-based corba clients and
servers, bibliographic web services, web services for publishing
sequence data and flat file indexing. All of these have been implemented
in BioJava, and interoperate with implementations in the other open-bio
language projects, as well as with some external implementations.

Over the next year, we hope to mature the library's functionality in
areas related to sequence manipulation, pipeline management, alignments,
Sequence GUIs and file parsers. In parallel, we shall be integrating
code-generation, more flexible transaction management and ontology
representations with the current free-form annotation model and BioJava
interfaces to allow the representation of more fluid data types, and
more maintainable and robust implementation of standard interfaces.
