Johann Visagie, Electric Genetics

Note:  This abstract is aimed at a "lightning" talk.


		       The FreeBSD-bio porting project

FreeBSD is a free and open source operating system based on 4.4BSD, the final
version of Berkeley's academic operating system which formed the basis for
the development of much of the technologies underlying the Internet,
including the initial incorporation of TCP/IP into a Unix operating system.
As such it has a long and widely published academic track record, and over
this long history it has developed the sort of benchmark-stretching
performance and rock-solid stability required of a Bioinformatics server.

FreeBSD provides a third party application infrastructure known as the "ports
collection".  Going beyond most of the various binary packaging systems found
in commercial and open source Unices, FreeBSD's ports provide an integrated
infrastructure for downloading, patching, building and installing
applications from source code, as well as for the further maintenance,
upgrading and (if necessary) removal of such appliations once installed.

The ports system extends open source principles from development to system
administration; it allows the experienced user to share his experience in
compiling and installing and configuring a particular application on FreeBSD,
and it allows the novice user to emulate this experience with a single
command.

The FreeBSD-bio project is a (highly) informal group of volunteers -
co-operating via a mailing list - who share the goal of committing a large
variety of commonly used bioinformatics tools and packages to the FreeBSD
ports collection's CVS tree.  Since FreeBSD ports are packaged in a
pre-compiled binary format on FreeBSD distribution CDs and DVDs, this will
eventually allow even the novice end user to set up a fully functional
bioinformatics server "out of the box" with minimal effort.

URL (mailing list):  http://www.plig.net/mailman/listinfo/freebsd-bio/
Licence:             BSD, of course.  :-)


-- Johann Visagie, Electric Genetics
