Mark Wilkinson
BioMOBY

    The BioMOBY project will generate a web services registry for
biological data.  Two main components are required:  1:  a defined set
of approximately 200-250 lightweight XSD templates describing basic
biological data objects, 2: a central registry, "MOBY-Central", which
stores the URL and protocol of a web service, as well as the input and
output objects that the service accepts and generates.  At present it is
planned that MOBY-Central, upon client request, will generate a WSDL
service specification on-the-fly and return this to the Client.  The
Client then transacts the service directly from the service providor.
Such a system differs in several ways from the UDDI model; it simplifies
participation of Servers by assuming the task of WSDL document creation,
but most importantly it is "object driven" in that the Client may
request that MOBY-Central report all services that can accept the object
in-hand as input.  This enables the dynamic discovery of information
without necessitating prior Client (user) knowledge of the existence or
location of this information.
    A similar but independant project, OmniGene, stands as proof of
concept for the BioMOBY proposals and the OmniGene and BioMOBY
developers are now working together to create the BioMOBY system.  No
license agreement has yet been decided among the BioMOBY project
participants, however it is likely that BioMOBY will be released under
the same license as Perl itself.
