1. Which best describes your background?:<br>
Biologist  Bioinformatician  Computer Scientist  Other (please specify below)<br><br><br>
<br>
2. Which type of delegate are you at BOSC/ISMB?:<br>
Academic/Government Student Coorporate<br>
<br>
3. Where are you currently working/studying?<br>
Europe Americas Asia Africa Oceania Other<br>
<br>
4. How many BOSC meetings have you previously attended?<br>
0 1 2 3 4 5 all previous meetings<br>
<br>
5. How do you rate the meeting as a whole:<br>
very poor poor alright good very good<br>
<br>
6. How do you rate the different parts of the meeting:<br>
Long Talks: very poor poor alright good very good<br>
Lightning Talks: very poor poor alright good very good<br>
BoFs: very poor poor alright good very good<br>
<br>
7. I use Open Source Bioinformatics Software:<br>
never  rarely  occasionally  often  very often<br>
<br>
8. I write Open Source Bioinformatics Software:<br>
never  rarely  occasionally  often very often:<br>
<br>
9. Please rank the following, 1 being the best, 3 being the worst (use each rank only once):<br>
Long Talks: 1 2 3<br>
Lightning Talks: 1 2 3<br>
BoFs: 1 2 3<br>
<br>
10. Please rate the following, 1 being extremely useful, 3 being no use at all:<br>
BOSC event-db RSS: 1 2 3<br>
BOSC Blog:1 2 3<br>
<br>
11. The BOSC organizing committee are constantly thinking about new formats for the meeting.<br>
With 1 being the best, and 5 being the worst, please rank the following (use each rank only once):<br>
Long Talks: 1 2 3 4 5<br>
Lightning Talks: 1 2 3 4 5<br>
BoFs: 1 2 3 4 5<br>
Hands On Tutorial: 1 2 3 4 5<br>
Round Table Discussion on issues in developing Open Source Software: 1 2 3 4 5<br>
<br>
12. What is your opinion about BOSC association with ISMB<br>
very poor poor alright good very good<br>
<br>
13. Would you attend BOSC if it was not associated with ISMB? Yes No<br>
<br><br><br><br><br>
14. At this stage, are you planning to attend BOSC 2007? Yes No<br>
<br><br><br><br><br>
15. What were your expectations of the meeting? Were they met?<br>
<br><br><br><br><br>
16. Can you describe any programs at other conferences that you have attended that would be effective
in BOSC conferences.<br>
<br><br><br><br><br>
17. Please add any other comments here:<br><br><br><br><br>