If you are in any way interested in software packaging and deployment for bioinformatics you can meet like-minded people on the Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF) bio-packaging mailing list at

    http://lists.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/bio-packaging

Here we discuss issues around packaging and deploying software: anything that concerns dependencies, multiple version support and/or reproducibility. The general idea is to come up with solutions we can share across environments and construct (shared) pipelines out of them.

== Generic packaging systems ==

=== GNU Guix ===

[https://www.gnu.org/software/guix GNU guix] is a package manager for the Gnu/Linux operating system. Bioinformatics packages are constructed [http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/guix.git/tree/gnu/packages/bioinformatics.scm here]. GNU Guix can be run inside any Linux distribution (it is distribution agnostic because all software installs under /gnu). There may be OSX/Cygwin support in the future, but currently the targets are Linux and Hurd. See also GNU Guix [https://www.gnu.org/software/guix/manual/guix.html documentation] and Pjotr's [https://github.com/pjotrp/guix-notes guix-notes]

== Language based packaging systems ==

=== Ruby biogems ===

* [http://biogems.info/ biogems] are Ruby packages (gems) that can install globally or in HOME. To make sure gems do not conflict with multiple Ruby versions it is possible to use RVM, rbenv and/or GNU Guix.

=== Python packages ===
=== Perl CPAN ===
=== R CRAN ===

* http://cran.r-project.org/

=== Javascript ===

* node.js npm: https://www.npmjs.com
* javascript, bower: http://bower.io

== Linux distributions and VMs ==

=== Debian Med ===

[https://www.debian.org/devel/debian-med/ Debian Med] contains a wide range of bioinformatics software packages target at Debian Linux and derivatives.

=== CloudBiolinux ===

[http://cloudbiolinux.org CloudBioLinux] offers genome analysis resources for cloud computing platforms such as Amazon EC2. The source code can be found [https://github.com/chapmanb/cloudbiolinux here]. CloudBiolinux uses a combination of Debian/Ubuntu packages with linuxbrew and self-compiled software.

=== Galaxy ===
=== Docker ===