== Board of Directors ==
The board can be contacted via email at [mailto:board@open-bio.org board@open-bio.org]

'''President'''
:; [[bp:Hilmar Lapp|Hilmar Lapp]] : Representing [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]].  Employed by the [http://genome.duke.edu/ Center for Genomic and Computational Biology] (GCB) at Duke University. Former OBF Parliamentarian <!--, and currently acting Treasurer -->.

'''Treasurer'''
: Currently unfilled.

'''Secretary'''

:; <span class="plainlinks">[http://www.hutton.ac.uk/staff/peter-cock Peter Cock]</span> : [[bp:Biopython|Biopython]] core developer, bioinformatician at the [http://www.hutton.ac.uk/ James Hutton Institute]. [[BOSC 2015]] co-chair

'''Parliamentarian'''
: Currently unfilled.

'''At-large members'''

:; <span class="plainlinks">[http://www.linkedin.com/in/nomiharris Nomi Harris]</span> : Employed by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. [[BOSC 2015]] co-chair.

:; [[bp:Christopher_Fields|Chris Fields]] : [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]] core developer, researcher fellow at the [http://www.igb.uiuc.edu/ Institute for Genomic Biology] at the [http://www.uiuc.edu/ University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign].

:; <span class="plainlinks">[https://github.com/kcranston Karen Cranston]</span>: Training Coordinator and Informatics Project Manager at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent).

=== Past Board Members ===
; [[bp:Ewan Birney|Ewan Birney]] : ''Past President and At-large Member'',  [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]] core developer.  Coordinator of the [http://www.ebi.ac.uk EBI] half of the [http://www.ensembl.org Ensembl] genome annotation project.
; Andrew Dalke : ''Past Secretary'', Represented [http://www.biopython.org BioPython] & [http://www.dalkescientific.com Dalke Scientific].
; [[bp:Steven Brenner|Steven E. Brenner]] : ''Past At-large member'', [http://compbio.berkeley.edu Professor] at University of California, Berkeley.
; [[User:Kdahlquist|Kam Dahlquist]] : ''Past At-large Member'', [http://myweb.lmu.edu/kdahlqui/ Associate Professor] at Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles.
; [[bp:Chris Dagdigian|Chris Dagdigian]] : [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]] co-founder & O|B|F sysadmin. Employed by [http://www.bioteam.net the BioTeam].
; [[bp:Jason Stajich|Jason Stajich]] : [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]] core developer. [http://stajichlab.fungalgenomes.org Assistant Professor] at [http://www.ucr.edu/ University of California, Riverside]. Former OBF President.

== Board of Directors Meetings ==

'''Upcoming Board Meeting:'''
* [[Minutes:2015_May_ConfCall| Conference call May 12, 2015]]

'''Minutes of past Board Meetings:'''
* [[Minutes:2014_Nov_ConfCall| Conference call Nov 18, 2014]]
* [[Minutes:2013_Dec_ConfCall| Conference call Dec 12, 2013]]
* [[Minutes:2013_Apr_ConfCall| Conference call Apr 9, 2013]]
* [[Minutes:2012_Nov_ConfCall| Conference call Nov 13, 2012]]
* [[Minutes:2012_Sep_ConfCall| Conference call Sep 11, 2012]]
* [[Minutes:2011_Dec_ConfCall| Conference call Dec 13, 2011]]
* [[Minutes:2011_ConfCall| Conference call Nov 8, 2011]]
* [[Minutes:2010_ConfCall| Conference call Oct 5, 2010]]
* [[Minutes:2009_ConfCall|Conference call Dec 14, 2009]]
* [[Minutes:2009 BOSC Meeting| 2009 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2008_ConfCall|Conference call Nov 19, 2008]] 
* [[Minutes:2008 BOSC Meeting| 2008 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2007 BOSC Meeting| 2007 BOSC Meeting]]
* No Board Meeting was held in 2006. 
* [[Minutes:2005 BOSC Meeting| 2005 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2004 BOSC Meeting| 2004 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2002 BOSC Meeting| 2002 BOSC Meeting]]

== Nominating Committee ==

According to the bylaws, the Nominating Committee "''shall attempt to contact members of the Board of Directors and active members of the OBF in an effort to identify eligible members interested in serving on the Board of Directors, and to solicit nominations from the general membership.''" (see Art. IV.7) It consists of "''the Parliamentarian and a minimum of 2 active members of the O|B|F.''" 

Currently serving:
# '''Nomi Harris''', BoD, Parliamentarian
# '''Scott Markel''', active member
# '''Aaron Mackey''', active member