---
title: BOSC 2010 Schedule
---

-   Return to **[ BOSC 2010](BOSC_2010 "wikilink")** main page.

Keynote Speakers
----------------

### Guy Coates

[Guy Coates](http://uk.linkedin.com/pub/guy-coates/3/b5b/9b0), Group
leader of the Informatics Systems Group at the [Wellome Trust Sanger
Institute](http://www.sanger.ac.uk/), will be one of our keynote
speakers at BOSC 2010. Guy Coates is an expert in large Linux/Unix
systems architecture, management and application optimization, next-gen
DNA sequencing pipelines, very large database systems (&gt;50TB), and
high performance compute clusters (1500+ CPUs). He will lead off the
conference, with a talk entitled:

***Clouds: all fluff and no substance?*** Cloud architectures have made
plenty of impact in the press over the past 18 months, but have they
made any impact in solving real bioinformatics challenges? This talk
will detail the Sanger Institute's experiences with the cloud, both good
and bad, and ask what needs to be done to prepare the cloud for the era
of commodity sequencing and $500 genomes.

### Ross Gardler

Our other keynote speaker will be [Ross
Gardler](http://www.linkedin.com/in/rossgardler), Vice President for
Community Development at the Apache Software Foundation and Manager for
OSS Watch (University of Oxford), which helps institutions and projects
in the UK that are using or developing free and open source software. He
has also performed Computer Science and Management research and teaching
in both the UK and West Indies. In his talk, he will share with the
O|B|F community the insights he has gained in community building for
Apache and other open source projects.

List of confirmed speakers from submitted abstracts
---------------------------------------------------

Click on the talk title to view the abstract as a PDF file.
