---
title: BOSC 2015 Panel
---

Every year, BOSC includes a panel discussion that offers all attendees
to engage in conversation with the panelists and each other. This year,
our panel discussion will focus on increasing diversity in our community
and at our conferences.

Panel chair **Mónica Muñoz-Torres** is the lead biocurator at Berkeley
Bioinformatics Open-Source Projects (BBOP). She is part of the
development teams for Web Apollo (a web-based annotation editor designed
to support community-based curation of genomes) and the tools of the
Gene Ontology (GO) Consortium. She co-leads the Community Curation group
within the global initiative to sequence and annotate the genomes of
5,000 arthropods (i5K Initiative), and is a member of the Executive
Committee of the International Society for Biocuration (ISB).

**Holly Bik** is a Birmingham Fellow (assistant professor) in the School
of Biosciences at the University of Birmingham, UK. Her research uses
high-throughput environmental sequencing approaches (rRNA surveys,
metagenomics) to explore biodiversity and biogeographic patterns in
microbial eukaryote assemblages, with an emphasis on nematodes in marine
sediments. Through active collaborations with computer scientists and
participation in software development projects, her long-term research
aims to address existing bottlenecks encountered in –Omic analyses
focused on microbial eukaryotes.

**Michael R. Crusoe** is the lead for the k-h-mer project at C. Titus
Brown's Lab for Data Intensive Biology at the University of California,
Davis in the School of Veterinary Medicine. A community-minded
bioinformatics research software engineer and Software Carpentry
instructor, he is also a member of the Debian Med software packaging
team. Michael's social justice background includes a prior seat on the
board for the Phoenix, Arizona chapter of GLSEN, the Gay, Lesbian, and
Straight Education Network and he is proud to be a supporter of the Ada
Initiative.

**Aleksandra Pawlik**

**Jason Williams** is the Lead of the iPlant Collaborative’s Education,
Outreach, Training (EOT) group, based at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory,
where he has worked for over 10 years. He is also a Lead Instructor of
“The Science Institute” at Yeshiva University High School for Girls, and
the Treasurer of the Software Carpentry Foundation. His background is in
molecular biology and bioinformatics.
