OpenBio Codefest 2015 will take place July 8th and 9th, 2015 (the Wednesday and Thursday before [[BOSC 2015]]) in Dublin, Ireland. This is an opportunity for anyone interested in open science, biology and programming to meet, discuss and work collaboratively. Everyone is welcome to attend.

This is the sixth annual pre-[[BOSC]] [[Codefest]]. Previous fun and successful events were [[Codefest 2010]] in
Boston, [[Codefest 2011]] in Vienna, [[Codefest 2012]] in Los Angeles, [[Codefest 2013]] in Berlin,
and [[Codefest 2014]] in Boston.

== What to expect ==

The OpenBio Codefest is a collaborative two day working session. The only
requirement for attendance is that you have an interest in open source software
and solving scientific problems. We will have contributors to open source
bioinformatics tools present to collaboratively work with, and we welcome new
attendees who want to learn and contribute to open source code or documentation.

The rough structure of the two days is:

- Start with introductions from everyone attending about their goals and plans
  for the two days.
- Assemble into working groups based on shared interests. We use the
  [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BJ_l4LG_RiCukJaDSkK4-_apr2nBtFr4gUYQHo1HeVQ/edit
  collaboratively brainstormed Google document] as the basis for setting up
  groups. Attendees determine the goals for the two days. Please add
  your ideas before the event.
- Work and discuss. Enjoy the productive time.
- We'll have regular breaks where each group can deliver short reports on
  their progress.
- We have informal lunches, dinners and drinks as a way for everyone to get to
  know each other better.
- At the end of the two days, we summarize contributions and work accomplished
  in a BOSC presentation and meeting report.

Please feel free to get in touch with any of the organizers with questions. You
are very welcome at Codefest.

== Attending ==

You are very welcome to attend. There is no cost, we only ask you to register to help organize numbers. Please add yourself if you are
interested to [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1STl3x-KcInCxpGBgBHDz2C_LvrudXDe1X9d68NpH0Tk/edit?usp=sharing this Google spreadsheet]
We'll coordinate through the [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openbio-codefest-2015 Codefest 2015 mailing list],
so please sign up to discuss and receive updates.

== Logistics ==

We're actively working on finding a location for Codefest 2015 in Dublin. If you are local and able to help, please get in touch with [https://github.com/chapmanb Brad].

== Organizers ==

* [http://bcb.io/ Brad Chapman]