OpenBio Codefest 2011 will take place July 13th and 14th, 2011 in Vienna, Austria; the two days before [[BOSC 2011]]. This is a great opportunity for open source bioinformatics developers to meet and work collaboratively. We hope to have developers from projects such as [http://bioperl.org BioPerl], [http://www.biojava.org BioJava], [http://biopython.org Biopython], [http://www.bioruby.org BioRuby], and [http://www.emboss.org EMBOSS] in attendance.

This is a follow-up to the extremely successful and fun [[Codefest 2010]] in Boston.

== Goals ==

OpenBio projects are typically coordinated remotely, with users from all over the world contributing and organizing themselves through mailing lists and IRC chats. Additionally, contributors work on these projects in their spare time, coordinating improving the projects with their day jobs and life outside of the computer.
The objective of the Codefest is to give these talented developers a chance to be fully focused on the projects for a few days, interacting in real time. Previous [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Hackathon Hackathons] have been immensely successful at producing new high quality code and innovative project developments.

The goals for the two days are determined entirely by developers. We welcome your input. Please add your thoughts to the shared Google document:

* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EFe9YszL5Lp5FjZjJLFhWepsto1jhC6oASWcG4Wlnds/edit?hl=en Codefest 2011 Goals]

and discuss:

* [http://groups.google.com/group/openbio-codefest2011 Codefest 2011 mailing list]

== Location ==

We are being kindly hosted by the [http://metalab.at/wiki/English Metalab Hacker space] in Vienna. Check out their [http://log.metalab.at/ daily web log] to get a feel for life in the lab, and the [http://metalab.at/wiki/OpenBio_Codefest_2011 Metalab Codefest page].

Metalab has a nice [http://metalab.at/wiki/Lage location map]. We'll be counting on local residents to help with additional detailed directions.

== Attendees ==

You are very welcome to attend. Please add yourself if you are interested to [https://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0Agxg-o4ZmoZ4dHQxWEV1aW1raFJKbWxrMk80RDZSOVE&hl=en&authkey=CK3mo_4B this Google spreadsheet] and sign up on the [http://groups.google.com/group/openbio-codefest2011 mailing list].

* [http://bcbio.wordpress.com/ Brad Chapman]
* [[User:Lapp| Hilmar Lapp]]
* [http://blog.malde.org/ Ketil Malde] from the [http://biohaskell.org Biohaskell]...er, crowd.
* Thomas Down from [http://biodas.org/ DAS]/[http://www.biodalliance.org/ Biodalliance].
* Raoul J.P. Bonnal from [http://bioruby.org BioRuby]
* Peter Cock from [http://biopython.org Biopython]
* Hervé Ménager from the [https://projets.pasteur.fr/wiki/mobyle Mobyle project]
* Bertrand Néron from the [https://projets.pasteur.fr/wiki/mobyle Mobyle project]
* [http://about.me/pablopareja Pablo Pareja] from [http://www.ohnosequences.com Oh no sequences!], main developer of  [http://www.bio4j.com Bio4j project]
* Peter Rice from [http://emboss.sf.net EMBOSS]
* Paul Horton ([http://seq.cbrc.jp CBRC])
* Vipin T Sreedharan ([http://galaxy.tuebingen.mpg.de/ FML, Max Planck Society])
* Ben Woodcroft (University of Melbourne)
* Johan Henriksson ([http://www.endrov.net Karolinska Institute])
* Christian Hoener zu Siederdissen ([http://www.tbi.univie.ac.at/~choener/ TBI Vienna (and Biohaskell ;-)])
* Matus Kalas ([http://bioxsd.org BioXSD])
* Alex Kalderimis ([http://www.intermine.org Intermine(University of Cambridge) ])
* FengYuen Hu ([http://www.intermine.org Intermine(University of Cambridge) ])
* Peter Clarke (FourPartsWater Biocomputing)
* Mesude Bicak ([http://nebc.nerc.ac.uk Bio-Linux])
* Tim Booth ([http://nebc.nerc.ac.uk Bio-Linux])
* Dawn Field ([http://nebc.nerc.ac.uk Bio-Linux])
* Konstantinos Krampis ([http://cloudbiolinux.org CloudBioLinx])
* Scott Cain ([http://gmod.org GMOD])
* Roman Valls Guimerà ([http://scilifelab.se Science For Life Lab Stockholm])