---
title: Codefest 2014
---

OpenBio Codefest 2014 will take place July 9th and 10th, 2014 (the
Wednesday and Thurday before [BOSC 2014](BOSC_2014 "wikilink")) in
Cambridge, Massachusetts at [hack/reduce](http://www.hackreduce.org/).
This is a great opportunity for open source bioinformatics developers to
meet and work collaboratively. We hope to have developers from projects
such as [BioPerl](http://bioperl.org),
[BioJava](http://www.biojava.org), [Biopython](http://biopython.org),
[BioRuby](http://www.bioruby.org), [Galaxy](http://wiki.g2.bx.psu.edu/)
and [GenomeSpace](http://www.genomespace.org) in attendance. Everyone is
welcome to attend.

This is the fifth annual Codefest, continuing work from [Codefest
2010](Codefest_2010 "wikilink") in Boston, [Codefest
2011](Codefest_2011 "wikilink") in Vienna, [Codefest
2012](Codefest_2012 "wikilink") in Los Angeles, and [Codefest
2013](Codefest_2013 "wikilink") in Berlin.

Goals
-----

Most open source bioinformatics projects are coordinated remotely, with
users from all over the world contributing and organizing themselves
through mailing lists and chats. Contributors work on these projects in
their spare time, balancing open source commitments with their day jobs
and life outside of the computer.

The objective of the Codefest is to give these talented developers a
chance to be fully focused on the projects for a few days, interacting
in real time. Previous
[Hackathons](http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Hackathon) have been immensely
successful at producing new high quality code and innovative project
developments.

The goals for the two days are determined entirely by attendees. Please
add your project ideas to the [shared Google
document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yADE2bb0rEU6TASxuSPsvTdHvh_rtCXzJrsL3NWzxXE/edit?usp=sharing).
We'll use this brainstorming discussion document to prepare directions
for the two days of work.

Attendees
---------

You are very welcome to attend. There is no cost, we only ask you to
register to help organize numbers for food and beverages. Please add
yourself if you are interested to [this Google
spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Agxg-o4ZmoZ4dHU1OXhrczV3Q3d5eE9CUVhBc1dGNWc&usp=sharing)
We'll coordinate through the [Codefest 2014 mailing
list](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openbio-codefest-2014),
so please sign up to receive updates.

Location
--------

[hack/reduce](http://www.hackreduce.org/), a wonderful hacker space in
Cambridge, has agreed to host us for the two days. It's located a short
walk from the Kendall Square Red Line [T stop](http://mbta.com/):

<iframe width="425" height="350" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0"
marginwidth="0"
src="https://maps.google.com/maps?q=275+3rd+St.,+Cambridge,+MA,+02142&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;hq=&amp;hnear=275+Third+St,+Cambridge,+Massachusetts+02142&amp;gl=us&amp;ll=42.365946,-71.082573&amp;spn=0.011558,0.026114&amp;t=m&amp;z=14&amp;output=embed"></iframe>  
<small><a
href="https://maps.google.com/maps?q=275+3rd+St.,+Cambridge,+MA,+02142&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;hq=&amp;hnear=275+Third+St,+Cambridge,+Massachusetts+02142&amp;gl=us&amp;ll=42.365946,-71.082573&amp;spn=0.011558,0.026114&amp;t=m&amp;z=14&amp;source=embed"
style="color:#0000FF;text-align:left">View Larger Map</a></small>

Organizers
----------

-   [Brad Chapman](http://bcbio.wordpress.com/)

