---
title: Codefest 2013
---

OpenBio Codefest 2013 will take place July 17th and 18th, 2013 (the two
days before [BOSC 2013](BOSC_2013 "wikilink")) in Berlin, Germany at
[Humboldt-Universität zu
Berlin](http://www.hu-berlin.de/?set_language=en&cl=en). This is a great
opportunity for open source bioinformatics developers to meet and work
collaboratively. We hope to have developers from projects such as
[BioPerl](http://bioperl.org), [BioJava](http://www.biojava.org),
[Biopython](http://biopython.org), [BioRuby](http://www.bioruby.org),
[Galaxy](http://wiki.g2.bx.psu.edu/) and
[GenomeSpace](http://www.genomespace.org) in attendance. Everyone is
welcome to attend.

This is a follow-up to [Codefest 2010](Codefest_2010 "wikilink") in
Boston, [Codefest 2011](Codefest_2011 "wikilink") in Vienna and
[Codefest 2012](Codefest_2012 "wikilink") in Los Angeles.

Goals
-----

OpenBio projects are typically coordinated remotely, with users from all
over the world contributing and organizing themselves through mailing
lists and IRC chats. Additionally, contributors work on these projects
in their spare time, coordinating improving the projects with their day
jobs and life outside of the computer. The objective of the Codefest is
to give these talented developers a chance to be fully focused on the
projects for a few days, interacting in real time. Previous
[Hackathons](http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Hackathon) have been immensely
successful at producing new high quality code and innovative project
developments.

The goals for the two days are determined entirely by developers. Please
add your project ideas to the [shared Google
document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xbS7ZkjipXct00eOfR7-IL_Ti6QzAsjFvcJtopMeT2g/edit?usp=sharing).
We'll use this brainstorming discussion document to prepare directions
for the two days of work in Berlin.

Codefest Report
---------------

-   [Project summary
    writeup](https://bcbio.wordpress.com/2013/07/18/summary-from-bioinformatics-open-science-codefest-2013-tools-infrastructure-standards-and-visualization/)
-   [Detailed writeups on work
    accomplished](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xbS7ZkjipXct00eOfR7-IL_Ti6QzAsjFvcJtopMeT2g/edit?usp=sharing)

Location
--------

Attention, we have two different rooms for the two days.

*The 17th:*

We'll be hosted in lab rooms at the [Department of Biology,
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin](http://www.biologie.hu-berlin.de/), in
the historic
[Invalidenstraße](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invalidenstra%C3%9Fe)
number ~~42~~ **43** (west entrance), in a wing of the Natural History
Museum. The nearest metro station is the [Naturkundemuseum on
U6](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/U-Bahnhof_Naturkundemuseum).

Dinner is at 20:30 at the Speisekombinat in Chausseestr, south corner to
Invalidenstr.

*The 18th:*

Chausseestr. 117, room \#551, which is the topmost (5th, starting
counting from 0) floor. This time we are even closer to the [U6
Naturkundemuseum](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/U-Bahnhof_Naturkundemuseum)
metro station.

We'll plan to start at roughly 9am for the two days. Some folks will be
later on the first day with incoming morning flights.

Attendees
---------

You are very welcome to attend. Please add yourself if you are
interested to [this Google
spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Agxg-o4ZmoZ4dEQyOFhrLUt4YVBXX0xxWjRyYTBRb2c)
and sign up on the [mailing
list](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openbio-codefest-2013).

Main Organisers
---------------

-   [Brad Chapman](http://bcbio.wordpress.com/)
-   [Steffen Möller](http://www.derma.uni-luebeck.de/)

