OpenBio Codefest 2013 will take place July 17th and 18th, 2013 (the two days before [[BOSC 2013]]) in Berlin, Germany at 
[http://www.hu-berlin.de/?set_language=en&cl=en Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin]. This is a great opportunity for open source bioinformatics developers to meet and work collaboratively. We hope to have developers from projects such as [http://bioperl.org BioPerl], [http://www.biojava.org BioJava], [http://biopython.org Biopython], [http://www.bioruby.org BioRuby], [http://wiki.g2.bx.psu.edu/ Galaxy] and [http://www.genomespace.org GenomeSpace] in attendance. Everyone is welcome to attend.

This is a follow-up to [[Codefest 2010]] in Boston, [[Codefest 2011]] in Vienna and [[Codefest 2012]] in Los Angeles.

== Goals ==

OpenBio projects are typically coordinated remotely, with users from all over the world contributing and organizing themselves through mailing lists and IRC chats. Additionally, contributors work on these projects in their spare time, coordinating improving the projects with their day jobs and life outside of the computer.
The objective of the Codefest is to give these talented developers a chance to be fully focused on the projects for a few days, interacting in real time. Previous [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Hackathon Hackathons] have been immensely successful at producing new high quality code and innovative project developments.

The goals for the two days are determined entirely by developers. Please add your project ideas to the [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xbS7ZkjipXct00eOfR7-IL_Ti6QzAsjFvcJtopMeT2g/edit?usp=sharing shared Google document]. We'll use this brainstorming discussion document to prepare directions for the two days of work in Berlin.

== Location ==

We'll be hosted in lab rooms at the [http://www.biologie.hu-berlin.de/ Department of Biology, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin], near historic [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invalidenstra%C3%9Fe Invalidenstrasse]. Thanks to Steffen Möller and Ivo Maintz for help securing the room. More details on times and directions will be available. In the meantime, enjoy some [http://jaguar.biologie.hu-berlin.de/~ivo/ISMB/30Plaetze_alt/ pictures of the room].

* [http://goo.gl/maps/ognVO Google map] of Codefest and Conference venues, hotels nearby and train stations

== Accomodation ==

The venue is in a nice area of Berlin and everyone is wholeheartedly invited to stay nearby for the full conference. Prices vary with availability, so book soon. Public transport in Berlin is excellent, throughout the night, so do not worry too much if prices for the hotels listed below have already gone through the roof. Just take anything between our venue and the conference site. The usual internet booking services are your friend. To increase chances for us to meet by chance, check for one the following hotels, which should pop up when sorting for distance from the center:

* Hotel Aquino (55 Euros)
* Mercure Hotel Berlin City (65 Euros)
* Hotel Motel One Berlin Bellevue (59 Euros)
* Gat Point Charlie (51 Euros incl. breakfast)

The Gat Point Charlie is a bit south, but it is a truly nice walk through Berlin of 2.5km to the Codefest.

== Attendees ==

You are very welcome to attend. Please add yourself if you are interested to [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Agxg-o4ZmoZ4dEQyOFhrLUt4YVBXX0xxWjRyYTBRb2c this Google spreadsheet] and sign up on the [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openbio-codefest-2013 mailing list].

== Main Organisers ==

* [http://bcbio.wordpress.com/ Brad Chapman]
* [http://www.derma.uni-luebeck.de/ Steffen Möller]

{{#language:en}}