OpenBio Codefest 2012 will take place July 11th and 12th, 2012 (the two days before [[BOSC 2012]]) in Los Angeles, California at [http://www.lmu.edu/ Loyola Marymount University]. This is a great opportunity for open source bioinformatics developers to meet and work collaboratively. We hope to have developers from projects such as [http://bioperl.org BioPerl], [http://www.biojava.org BioJava], [http://biopython.org Biopython], [http://www.bioruby.org BioRuby], [http://wiki.g2.bx.psu.edu/ Galaxy] and [http://www.emboss.org EMBOSS] in attendance.

This is a follow-up to [[Codefest 2010]] in Boston and [[Codefest 2011]] in Vienna.

== Goals ==

OpenBio projects are typically coordinated remotely, with users from all over the world contributing and organizing themselves through mailing lists and IRC chats. Additionally, contributors work on these projects in their spare time, coordinating improving the projects with their day jobs and life outside of the computer.
The objective of the Codefest is to give these talented developers a chance to be fully focused on the projects for a few days, interacting in real time. Previous [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Hackathon Hackathons] have been immensely successful at producing new high quality code and innovative project developments.

The goals for the two days are determined entirely by developers. We welcome your input. Please add your thoughts to the shared Google document:

* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FhxN06Ub63dkC6wiHCemFBAiM4MGwW8yG47qVqysioc/edit Codefest 2012 Goals]

and discuss:

* [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openbio-codefest-2012 Codefest 2012 mailing list]
* During the Codefest, on IRC (freenode/#codefest)

== Location and Time ==

We are being hosted by the [http://cse.lmu.edu/departments/math.htm math department at LMU].

* The Math Department at LMU is in University Hall Suite 2700.  We will have several rooms and a lounge area to spread out and work in.
* Kam will be there at 9:00 AM on Wednesday to make sure the rooms are open and to greet people.
* [http://www.lmu.edu/Assets/WEBADMIN+ONLY+-+Special+Content/Campus+Map+Full+Color.pdf Link to campus map.]
* [http://www.mapquest.com/maps?address=1+Lmu+Dr&city=Los+Angeles&state=CA&zipcode=90045&redirect=true Link to Mapquest.]

=== Directions if you are driving ===

* Use the address

 1 LMU Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90045

: in your favorite mapping program.  This will give you directions to the main entrance to campus.  University Hall is the first building on the right as you enter campus.  There is underground parking underneath this building.  Parking is free on the P2 and P3 levels.  Take an elevator up to the second floor; Suite 2700 is on the West side of the building.

=== Directions if you are walking from the Custom Hotel ===

* When you leave the hotel, head South on Lincoln Boulevard and cross over to the other side of the street at one of the stop lights.  You will pass three stop lights at Manchester, 84th St., and 83rd St.  Then you will go down a hill and see some fountains on the right side.  This is the entrance to campus.  University Hall is the large building immediately on your right as you enter campus.  There is an entrance to the building on the side facing Lincoln, but it can be tricky to find.  If you continue walking on the sidewalk next to the building, you will find another entrance at the other end of the building.  Suite 2700 is on the second floor, closer to the Lincoln side of the building.

=== Directions from other hotels ===

* Most likely a taxi driver will be familiar with finding the campus.  Otherwise, use the driving directions above.  The other hotels are probably not within easy walking distance.

== Travel and Hotels ==

LMU is located a short cab ride from [http://www.lawa.org/welcomeLAX.aspx Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)]. Logistically, we hope attendees will fly into LAX, spend the Codefest time at a hotel near LMU, and then travel down to Long Beach on the night of the 12th for BOSC and ISMB.

We will work to arrange group transport from LMU to Long Beach on the night of the 12th.

There are several hotels nearby:

* [http://www.jdvhotels.com/hotels/losangeles/custom_hotel Custom Hotel] (within walking distance of the math department) -- [http://reservations.ihotelier.com/crs/indexaccount.cfm?hotelid=75065&languageid=1&identifire=LOYOLA&taid=0&identifier=LOYOLA Register with Loyola Rate code]

* [http://www.lmu.edu/about/services/bao/Auxiliary_Business_Services/localhotels.htm Alphabetical list of nearby hotels]

== Food ==

== Attendees ==

You are very welcome to attend. Please add yourself if you are interested to [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Agxg-o4ZmoZ4dDRWSTdMaE1Qeng3Y1FGN0tvT0t3eGc this Google spreadsheet] and sign up on the [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openbio-codefest-2012 mailing list].

* [http://bcbio.wordpress.com/ Brad Chapman]
* [http://myweb.lmu.edu/kdahlqui Kam Dahlquist]
* [http://www.ohloh.net/accounts/heuermh Michael Heuer]
* [http://usecloudman.org/enis Enis Afgan]
* [http://www.bioinformatics.net.au/ Torsten Seemann]
* [https://projets.pasteur.fr/projects/mobyle/wiki Hervé Ménager]
* [https://projets.pasteur.fr/projects/mobyle/wiki Bertrand Néron]
* [http://nebc.nerc.ac.uk/tools/bio-linux Tim Booth]
* [http://www.jcvi.org/cms/about/bios/kkrampis/ Ntino Krampis]
* [http://bioinformaticscore.blogspot.com/ Dawei Lin]
* [http://usegalaxy.org Dannon Baker]