OBF EU-Codefest 2014 will take place on September 18th and 19th, 2014 in Cambridge, UK, just before the [https://registration.hinxton.wellcome.ac.uk/display_info.asp?id=406 Genome Informatics Conference], which will be from September 21st to the 24th.

This is a great opportunity for open source bioinformatics developers to meet and work collaboratively. We hope to
have developers from all the OpenBio, bioinformatics and scientific programming projects. Everyone is welcome to
attend!

This is the second edition of the European OBF Codefest, the [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/EU_Codefest_2012 first one] was held in 2012 in Italy. 

== Goals ==

The EU Codefest share the same [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Codefest_2014#Goals goals] as the OBF Codefest, which is usually organized along with the [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/BOSC BOSC].

Since BOSC take place alternatively in the EU and USA, the EU Codefest was born two years ago to give the chance to EU based bioinformatics developers to attend, at least once per year, to an OBF Hackathon even when the BOSC is in the USA. Bioinformatics keeps growing and expanding rapidly and we believe that meeting once every two years for EU based developers is too much time. Having the chance to meet more regularly will in turn be extremely beneficial to strengthen our community, share ideas and start collaborating on new projects.

This event will be linked to the [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Codefest_2014 OBF Codefest], in fact we will coordinate with the group that will meet in the USA and hopefully the EU Codefest will be a continuation of the OBF Codefest work, with people having the chance to expand on existing projects and start new ones.

== Programme ==

During the codefest people are encouraged to work on FOSS projects. There will be a number of topics of focus:

# The Bio* projects
# Semantic web
# Software deployment and pipelines, including CloudBiolinux, and GNU GUIX
# NoSQL and VCF
# Visualisation with D3/JS

If you have another topic of interest, please contact the organizers.

== Attendees ==

If you plan to attend to the EU Codefest 2014, please fill in this [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vSLuVSHg139b7TdZnHAQXy0ZetikN7PZOILX0cBUKR8/edit?usp=sharing spreadsheet] so we can keep track of the number of people.

== Logistics ==

The Codefest will be hosted at the EBI [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/about/travel Campus] in Hinxton, close to Cambridge, UK. 

More details on the logistics will be added in the near future, if you want you can register to the [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openbio-codefest-2014 Codefest Mailing list] to receive news about this event.

== Sponsors ==

To be announced

== Organizers ==

* [https://github.com/fstrozzi Francesco Strozzi]
* [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~malone/ James Malone]
* [https://github.com/helios Raoul Bonnal]
* [http://thebird.nl/ Pjotr Prins]