---
title: Google Summer of Code 2012
---

2012 Mentor Volunteers and Project Ideas
----------------------------------------

Mentor names and project ideas are hosted on each member project's wiki
on a dedicated Google Summer of Code page. See each of the member
projects, linked below, for more details about any project:

BioPerl:  

:\* [Lightweight Sequence objects and Lazy
Parsing](http://bioperl.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Lightweight.2FLazy_BioPerl_Classes)

:\* [Perl Generic Wrappers for External
Programs](http://bioperl.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Perl_Run_Wrappers_for_External_Programs_in_a_Flash)

:\* [BioPerl 2.0: Modern::Perl, Perl6, and
BioPerl](http://bioperl.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#BioPerl_2.0_.28and_beyond.29)

:\* \[<http://bioperl.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Bio>::Assembly
Bio::Assembly updates\]

:\* [Semantic web
support](http://bioperl.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Semantic_Web_Support)

BioPython:  

:\* [SearchIO](http://biopython.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code)

:\* [Variant representation, parser, generator, and coordinate
converter](http://biopython.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code)

BioJava:  

:\* [Take BioJava into the
Cloud](http://biojava.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code_2012#Take_BioJava_into_the_Cloud)

:\* [New File
Parsers](http://biojava.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code_2012#New_File_Parsers_for_BioJava)

:\* [Port an algorithm to
BioJava](http://biojava.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code_2012#Port_an_Algorithm_to_Java)

BioRuby:  

:\* [Write the world's fastest parallelized GFF3/GTF parser in D, for
Ruby
FFI](http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Write_the_world.27s_fastest_parallelized_GFF3.2FGTF_parser_in_D.2C_for_Ruby_FFI)

:\* [Testing framework for biogem
plugins](http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Testing_framework_for_biogem_plugins)

:\* [Extend bio-alignment plug-in with Multiple Alignment Format -MAF-
parser
(FFI?)](http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Extend_bio-alignment_plug-in_with_Multiple_Alignment_Format_-MAF-_parser_.28FFI.3F.29)

:\* [Adding social networking functionality to
BioRuby.org](http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Adding_social_networking_functionality_to_BioRuby.org)

:\* [Update bio-images a plugin to represent bio-object with cool
images](http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Update_bio-images_a_plugin_to_represent_bio-object_with_cool_images)

:\* [Update to the Ruby Ensembl
API](http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Update_to_the_Ruby_Ensembl_API)

BioLib:  

:\* [Mapping EMBOSS to Perl, Ruby or Python using
BioLib+SWIG+EMBOSS](http://biolib.open-bio.org/wiki/GSoC2012)

:\* [Write the world's fastest parallelized GFF3/GTF parser in D, for
Ruby
FFI](http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#Write_the_world.27s_fastest_parallelized_GFF3.2FGTF_parser_in_D.2C_for_Ruby_FFI)
(together with the BioRuby project)

*Note to students: project ideas on the wikis of member projects are
only selected projects, albeit well thought-out ones. You are encouraged
to propose your own project, just make sure it is still a contribution
to one the OBF member projects (see list below)! If we like your
proposal, we will try to find a mentor to help you with the project.
Regardless of what you decide to do, make sure you read and follow the
guidelines for students below.*
