---
title: Google Summer of Code 2011 Org Application
---

Organization name:  

Open Bioinformatics Foundation

Description:  

The OBF is a nonprofit volunteer run organization focused on supporting
open source programming in bioinformatics. It acts as an umbrella
organization for the BioPerl, BioPython, BioJava, BioRuby, BioSQL, and
BioLib projects, and organizes conferences and workshops to promote and
support open-source bioinformatics.

Home page:  

<http://www.open-bio.org/>

Main organization license:  

GPL v2

Why is your organization applying to participate in GSoC 2010? What do you hope to gain by participating? (required):  

There are a lot of good reasons to apply for GSoC, but the most
important for us is the opportunity to hopefully recruit and retain new,
competent contributors for our projects. In fact, even if a student does
not go on to be a regular contributor, they would still be much more
likely to consider a career in bioinformatics or medical informatics
after a summer working with us. And if there's one thing that
bioinformatics needs, it is more good software developers! But not just
good developers, ones with biological domain knowledge, or enough
intellectual curiosity to develop the necessary domain knowledge.

A program like GSoC is a great opportunity to cultivate some of the next
generation of bioinformatics developers. Based on our experience with
GSoC students last year, they do good work.

Did your organization participate in past GSoCs? If so, please summarize your involvement and the successes and challenges of your participation. (required):  

The OBF had a great crop of students for GSoC 2010. Six students, only
one of which failed. Of the five that passed, all of them did
outstanding work, learning a lot. Administering the program for OBF was
surprisingly easy. People in the (mostly academic) bioinformatics
community tend to be very independent workers, and five of the six
mentor-student teams coordinated, collaborated, and did excellent work.
The only hiccup was when one of the students disappeared (due to
mis-managed commitments) about halfway through the summer and we had to
fail them. We were a bit slow to respond in that case, I wish we had
been a bit faster to notice. However, we still failed him within a
reasonable time frame, before he collected his final payment. I'd like
us to be a bit faster this year though.

If your organization participated in past GSoCs, please let us know the ratio of students passing to students allocated, e.g. 2006 3/6 for 3 out of 6 students passed in 2006. (required) :  

2010: 5/6

Add a Comment (optional):  

<!-- -->

If your organization has not previously participated in GSoC, have you applied in the past? If so, for what year(s)? (required):  

We applied once previously, last year in 2009.

What is the URL for your ideas page? (required):  

<http://open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code>

What is the main development mailing list for your organization? This question will be shown to students who would like to get more information about applying to your organization for GSoC 2010. If your organization uses more than one list, please make sure to include a description of the list so students know which to use. (required):  

<!-- -->

  
Each sub-project has their own mailing list(s), they are linked and
described on the OBF GSoC page above. Lists:

:;BioPerl:

  
bioperl-l@lists.open-bio.org

BioPython:  

biopython@lists.open-bio.org

BioJava:  

biojava-l@lists.open-bio.org

BioRuby:  

bioruby@lists.open-bio.org

BioSQL:  

biosql-l@lists.open-bio.org

BioLib:  

biolib-dev@lists.open-bio.org

<!-- -->

What is the main IRC channel for your organization? (required):  

1.  obf-soc for GSoC students, \#bioperl for BioPerl, \#bioruby
    for BioRuby. Other subprojects do not currently have IRC channels.
    All on freenode.

Add a Comment (optional):  

<!-- -->

Does your organization have an application template you would like to see students use? If so, please provide it now. Please note that it is a very good idea to ask students to provide you with their contact information as part of your template. Their contact details will not be shared with you automatically via the GSoC 2010 site. (required):  

We have a list of information that every student must include with their
application. Pasted from
<http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code#When_you_apply>:

What criteria did you use to select the individuals who will act as mentors for your organization? Please be as specific as possible (required) :  

The list of mentors was assembled by asking for volunteers and project
ideas on the public mailing lists of the projects. Every volunteer this
time around was an experienced developer on their project, so there was
no problem there.

What is your plan for dealing with disappearing students? (required):  

The first line of defense for dealing with this situation is of course
to make sure it doesn't happen in the first place, by keeping the
student engaged (see question below). That said, if a student disappears
for a long period without prior arrangement with us, and/or a very good
reason and explanation, it's not fair to us or to the program. We will
give them a (short) window of opportunity to catch up and make amends,
but any further problems with them after that will most likely force us
to fail them and move on.

What is your plan for dealing with disappearing mentors? (required):  

Most projects have a primary mentor and one backup mentor. Our mentors
are drawn from a relatively small and tightly knit academic community,
so the chances of them disappearing are quite low, but in that event the
backup mentor would take over. In cases where a backup mentor isn't
already available, the various Open-Bio communities are large enough
that finding a substitute mentor should be relatively simple; if another
active project developer can't take over, chances are very good that one
of the inactive ones could be persuaded to serve in that kind of
scenario. Failing that, the organization administrator (Rob Buels) or
backup organization administrator (Hilmar Lapp) would have to take over
the orphan student(s).

What steps will you take to encourage students to interact with your project's community before, during and after the program? (required):  

All students will be subscribed to the developer mailing list of the
relevant project. Before the coding period, students and mentors will
conduct the bulk of their development plans publicly on the mailing
list. During the coding period, the students will post regular progress
reports on their project's wiki page on the relevant project wiki (pages
which will be watched by the mentors and organization administrators),
and will announce major milestones to the relevant mailing list. If a
student is hesitant to communicate, it is their mentor's primary
responsibility to get them out of their shell and working with the rest
of the team.

For mentors, they will of course be referred to the excellent materials
developed by previous GSoC mentors. In particular, within 2 weeks of OBF
getting accepted as a mentoring organization, each mentor will be
required to read through the new mentoring guide
(http://en.flossmanuals.net/GSoCMentoringGuide), and the organization
administrator will follow up with each of them to make sure that they
have read and absorbed the wisdom therein. A number of the OBF mentor
volunteers have previous experience mentoring students for GSoC as well.

What will you do to ensure that your accepted students stick with the project after GSoC concludes? (required):  

The two most important indicators for a student's continued
participation are 1.) the student's career path continuing in biology
and bioinformatics, and 2.) the quality and success of the student's
GSoC experience.

Let's face it, it's unlikely that someone would continue as a regular
contributor to open-source bioinformatics toolkits without it being
related to their career in biology or bioinformatics in some way. That
aspect is mostly out of our control, but we can influence that somewhat
by which students we pick to fill whatever GSoC slots would be allocated
to our organization.

With respect to the quality of the experience, responsibility for that
lies primarily with the mentors, guided by the organization
administrator. If they have a good, realistic project (preferably one
that they thought up themselves), and we keep them engaged and on track
for the summer, and bring it to a successful conclusion, that's about as
much as one can ask for.

Is there anything else you would like to tell the Google Summer of Code program administration team? (required):  

No, I think we've made our case.

Add a Comment (optional):  


