Hacking marathons (Hackathons) or coding festivals ([[Codefest|Codefests]]) are informal meetings focused on hands on programming and coding, with in person collaboration potentially allowing much more rapid discussion than remote discussion by email or IRC. OBF Hackathons have focused on collaborative coding, documentation, and better interoperation between OBF and other bioinformatics open-source projects.

== OBF Codefests and Hackathons ==

Since 2010, people from the OBF project communities have regularly organized or co-organized short 2-3 day events preceding the [[BOSC|BOSC conference]].

* [[EU-Codefest 2014]]
** September 18th and 19th, 2014 in Cambridge, UK
* [[Codefest 2014]]
** July 9-10, 2014, in Boston, MA, USA.
* [[Codefest 2013]]
** July 17-18, 2013, in Berlin, Germany.
* [http://www.broadinstitute.org/events/interoperability-hackathon-2013/home BOSC/Broad Interoperability Hackathon 2013]
** April 7-8, 2013 at Broad Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
* [[EU Codefest 2012]]
** July 19-20, 2012, in Lodi, Italy.
* [[Codefest 2012]]
** July 11-12, 2012, at Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
* [[Codefest 2011]]
** July 13-14, 2011, in Vienna, Austria.
* [[Codefest 2010]]
** July 7-8, 2010, in Boston, MA, USA.
* 2002 hackathon [http://gallery.open-bio.org/gallery2/v/hackathon2002/ pictures].
** Sponsored by O'Reilly and Electric Genetics
** This gathering worked on the [[BioSQL]] and [[bp:OBDA|OBDA]] standards.
* 2003 hackathon [http://gallery.open-bio.org/gallery2/v/2003hackathon/ pictures].
** Sponsored by Apple Asia
** This gathering focused more on [[BioSQL]] and [[bp:OBDA|OBDA]] as well as several supporting projects from the different toolkits.

== Other hackathons involving OBF projects ==

* [http://2013.biohackathon.org/ BioHackathon 2013]
** June, 2013, in Tokyo, Japan. Sponsored by the National Bioscience Database Center (NBCD) and Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS).
* [http://2012.biohackathon.org/ BioHackathon 2012]
** September 8-12, 2012, in Toyama, Japan. Sponsored by the National Bioscience Database Center (NBCD) and Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS).
* [http://hackathon3.dbcls.jp/ BioHackathon 2011]
** August, 2011, in Kyoto, Japan. Sponsored by the National Bioscience Database Center (NBCD) and Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS).
* [http://hackathon3.dbcls.jp/ BioHackathon 2010]
** Feb 8-12, 2010, in Tokyo, Japan. Sponsored by the Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS) and the Computational Biology Research Center (CBRC).
* [http://hackathon2.dbcls.jp/ BioHackathon 2009]
** Mar 16-20, 2009, in Tokyo and Okinawa, Japan. Sponsored by the Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS) and the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (OIST).
* [http://hackathon.dbcls.jp/ BioHackathon 2008]
** Feb 11-15, 2008, in Tokyo, Japan. Sponsored by the Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS) and the Computational Biology Research Center (CBRC).
* [http://hackathon.nescent.org/Phylohackathon_1 NESCent Phyloinformatics Hackathon 2006]
** Dec 11-15, 2006, in Durham, North Carolina. Sponsored by the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent).