---
title: Membership
---

Membership application
----------------------

The Open Bioinformatics Foundation invites professionals, scientists,
students, and others active in the Open Source Software arena in the
life sciences to [join the
OBF](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1aybVPb8F0pG6TNdUH0_BxMhOmfkQ-ARB4iun16mv6Ow/viewform)
as a member. The membership body was formally established at the [2005
Board of Directors](Minutes:2005_BOSC_Meeting "wikilink") meeting. As
laid out in the ![OBF Bylaws](OBF-Bylaws.pdf "fig:OBF Bylaws"), officers
in the Board of Directors will be elected by the membership among
nominees, and candidates for future Directors will be nominated from the
membership when seats are added or a term expires.

The eligibility criteria are met by anyone who is "interested in the
objectives of the OBF", and there are no dues at present. You can join
throughout the year by filling out the [application
form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1aybVPb8F0pG6TNdUH0_BxMhOmfkQ-ARB4iun16mv6Ow/viewform).
The best time and place to join is at the annual BOSC conference,
because attendees are automatically deemed eligible based on the fact
that they attended BOSC, but you can apply for membership at any time.

### Participate in OBF's Future

The Board established the membership body as the platform from which
major future changes to the OBF's mission, agenda, and scope will
originate, through active participation, discussion, and possibly most
importantly, through providing the future leadership of the OBF. If you
have ideas and the energy to advocate them then we encourage you to join
as a member, and perhaps to nominate yourself for future elections to
the Board. The bylaws define terms for Directors as well as Officers;
seats will come up for election every year.

Getting together
----------------

-   We gather at least once annually at [BOSC](BOSC "wikilink")
-   We also organize semi-regular [hackathons](hackathon "wikilink")

