'''Open Bioinformatics Foundation'''

Treasurers Report: January 2009 - Present
Prepared by: Chris Dagdigian
Version 1.0 - December 2009

'''General Summary'''

As of 12/14/2009 we have the following balances in our banking accounts:

* $14,813.25   - Standard Business Checking Account
* $16,245.68   - Business Investment Checking Account

With respect to our bank accounts, the OBF tends to spend very little money, on the order of 5 financial transactions since 2004. We generally take in money in the form of interest from our accounts and the occasional directed donation. 

'''All 2009 Financial Transactions'''

* 05/19/2009	 - 	($520.00) 	-- Jason S. online billpay via Business Checking Account  
* 12/14/2009 	 - 	$15.17 	-- Year to date interest on our Business Investment Checking Account
* To be deposited  - 	$250.00	-- Anonymous donation for BOSC travel fellowship


'''Financial Oversight''' 

Unchanged since 2008, Jason Stajich & Chris Dagdigian have shared online access to our Bank of America accounts and statements. We have an ATM card and a Visa debit card that have (intentionally) never been activated for use. In the rare occasions when the OBF needs to spend money we issue paper checks. 


'''2009 Expenses (to date)'''

*$(520.00) 	:  Reimburse Jason S. for two BOSC 2009 Student Awards ($260/ea) paid via PayPall


'''2009 Income (to date)
'''
* $15.17 	: Interest earned on business checking account
* $250.00	: BOSC'2009 Anonymous individual sponsorship donation


'''January 2009 - Present Expenses'''

All OBF operating expenses have been donated by 3rd parties:

* Domain name renewal fees:		Donated by C.Dagdigian
* Server hosting 				Donated by BioTeam Inc.
* Server bandwidth				Donated by BioTeam Inc.
* Delaware Registered Agent Fees	Donated by C.Dagdigian
* Legal consultation fees			Donated by C.Dagdigian
* Server hardware/memory		Donated by C.Dagdigian
* Zoneedit.com Outsourced DNS		Donated by C.Dagdigian


'''Future 2009-2010 Expenses'''

We expect to issue a few checks shortly to cover the following:

* Travel reimbursement for BOSC'2009 organizers
* BOSC'2010 Student Prize awards

'''''Please note that several items on the OBF Board Meeting Agenda relate to significant proposed spending on a total refresh of our server, hosting and IT infrastructure. Items under discussion for purchase sum up to approx. $8,000 USD.'''''