Genetic algorithm and neural network libraries for biological analysis
in python

Brad Chapman
Department of Crop and Soil Sciences; University of Georgia.
chapmanb@arches.uga.edu

Computational Intelligence techniques such as Neural Networks and
Genetic Algorithms have become popular for solving complex problems
without making assumptions about the underlying system being
analyzed. Many biological problems fall into the category of problems
that can be analyzed using these techniques, thanks in part to the recent
explosion of data generated by genome sequencing projects. In an
attempt to use computational intelligence techniques for biological
problems of interest, a set of libaries was developed in the python
programming language. In addition to the backbone code necessary for
analysis, supplemental code was also developed to allow rapid
conversion of biological sequence data into a form that can be
directly used in a genetic algorithm or neural network. The basic
Biopython sequence class was used as a nucleus for developing the
system, so the usage of these libraries should be familiar for those
experienced with Biopython. This and other design and implementation
issues related to the libraries will be discussed, along with usage
examples. Additionally, the use of this library for whole genome
analysis will be presented, using the example of finding Matrix
Attachment Regions in the Arabidopsis genome. Discussion will center
around the types of problems which are approachable using
neural networks or genetic algorithms.
