Mining gene expression information using a controlled hierarchical vocabulary

Genome scientists, geneticists and clinicians operate in disciplines that
have each contributed to increased scientific knowledge namely, release of
genome draft sequence, transcriptome data and  mapping information for
diseases loci and disease phenotypes. Successful integration of these
fields, by linking genome information to disease phenotypes allow for
accelerated disease gene discovery. 

Electric Genetics and SANBI researches have developed a tool that
integrates transcript information, genomic sequence, genetic mapping
information and a standardised controlled vocabulary for identification of
disease candidate genes. We have contructed a controlled vocabulary for
dbEST libraries that classifies each cDNA library into four orthogonal
categories including anatomical_site, cell_type, developmental stage and
pathology. A total of 5756 dbEST libraries were mapped onto this
controlled vocabulary and imported into a relational database. The
controlled vocabulary demonstrates that detailed definitions in four
separate vocabulary tracks allow detailed mining of gene expression state
information.

The controlled vocabulary was linked to the STACK_PACK clustering tool and
provided a means of querying all reconstructed transcripts. Genetic
markers were mapped onto the "golden path" genome assemblies to serve as a
reference guide to position all identified candidate genes. Reconstructed
transcripts are also mapped to "golden path" genome assemblies.

The EG/SANBI toolset and controlled vocabulary will be released to
the scientific community under an Open Source license.

---END

-- 
_______________/\/eGenetics.com\/\_____________________________________
Peter van Heusden    1024D/0517502B		pvh@egenetics.com
Electric Genetics    DE5B 6EAA 28AC 57F7 58EF  9295 6A26 6A92 0517 502B
