If you would like to organize a Birds of a Feather (BOF) meeting at BOSC 2014, please sign up for a [[Special:Userlogin| wiki account]], log in, and add your BOF description to this page. Please list the BOF topic and the name of the organizer.

The BOFs can either be over lunch (which can be very busy with other events), or start after the end of the last talk (around 5:30) and run until 6:30 or until you're kicked out of the room.

There can be multiple BOFs in parallel.

== Friday BOFs (Day 1) ==

* '''Lunchtime (12:30-14:00)'''
** Twitter meetup (over lunch), proposed by Michael Crusoe (@biocruose)
* '''17:30-18:30'''
** '''De-coupling BOSC from the ISMB?''' Contact Peter Cock. Try to get a feel from the attendees about who likes having BOSC as an SIG at the ISMB, versus going independent and perhaps co-locating near other broad interest meetings?

== Saturday BOFs (Day 2) ==
* '''Lunchtime (12:30-14:00)'''
** '''Dependent Types and Safety in Biomedical Software:''' How to make sure that the software that will pick my treatment is doing what it is supposed to do? [http://coq.inria.fr/ Coq], [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependent_types Dependent types], [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Therac-25 Therac-25], … (proposed by [http://seb.mondet.org/ Seb])
** Improving diversity at BOSC and the CodeFests (lead by Nomi Harris and Brad Chapman)
* '''17:30-18:30'''
** '''Genome Visualization''':  potential for cooperation?  (Proposed by Thomas Down)
** (Enter your BOF description here)



----

* Return to '''[[BOSC_2014_Schedule | BOSC 2014 Schedule]]'''
* Return to '''[[BOSC_2014 | BOSC 2014]]''' main page