If you would like to organize a Birds of a Feather (BOF) meeting at BOSC 2012, just sign up for a [[Special:Userlogin| wiki account]], log in, and add your BOF description to this page. Please list the BOF topic and the name of the organizer.

The BOFs are from ~5:30-6:30 in the same room as the BOSC talks.

== Friday BOFs (Day 1) ==

===HDF5 Users===
Anyone interested in HDF5 or who has questions that could not be answered during the talk is invited to talk to one of the HDF5 developers during this BOF.

===Data visualization===
For people interested in chatting about tools, approaches, best practices, unsolved issues, ... in (biological) data visualization.

== Saturday BOFs (Day 2) ==

===Interactive Visualizations with D3===
Thought it might be interesting to go over some basics and examples of D3 - a javascript based data visualization library. 
And perhaps hear how other groups are using (or thinking about using) this tool.

===Bioinformatics Interoperability Environments===

Topics of interest to developers and users of bioinformatics interoperability environments, e.g. [http://www.genomespace.org GenomeSpace], [http://galaxy.psu.edu/ Galaxy], [http://www.taverna.org.uk Taverna], [https://projets.pasteur.fr/projects/mobyle/ Mobyle], [http://www.genepattern.org GenePattern] and others.

The myGrid team would like to discuss the interoperability of Taverna (http://www.taverna.org.uk), myExperiment (http://www.myexperiment.org), BioCatalogue (http://www.biocatalogue.org) with GenomeSpace and Galaxy in particular.
We would also like to add in RightField (http://www.rightfield.org.uk) and SEEK (http://www.seek4science.org) into the mix.

From the NBIC (Netherlands BioInformatics Centre) - myGrid collaboration, we can add the work on enabling the use of Taverna workflows as tools in Galaxy [[https://trac.nbic.nl/elabfactory/wiki/eGalaxy]].

Packaging of high quality (digital) 'materials and methods' may be a function of bioinformatics environments. This is the topic of the workflow forever project [[http://wf4ever-project.org]], which itself uses a Semantic Web approach for interoperability. Requirements for non-invasive use of its tools and guidelines may be a topic for discussion.

The [http://www.isa-tools.org/ ISA team] would like to enable ISA tools' output to be interoperable with GenomeSpace to benefit our [http://isacommons.org/ ISA user community]. The ISA-based Harvard Stem Cell Discovery Engine ([http://discovery.hsci.harvard.edu/ live database here];  [http://nar.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2011/11/24/nar.gkr1051.short?rss=1 NAR paper here]; Ben Chapman has also contributed to) is already using Galaxy, so we partly have that link, but interested in expanding for different data types.

----
* Return to '''[[BOSC_2012_Schedule | BOSC 2012 Schedule]]'''
* Return to '''[[BOSC_2012 | BOSC 2012]]''' main page